lavender_blueberry_loaf_cake/recipe.md, before:

# Lavender Blueberry Loaf Cake (WIP)
based on recipe from [Preppy Kitchen](https://preppykitchen.com/lemon-poppy-seed-pound-cake/) 

## Ingredients 
1. 1/2 cup whole milk, plus a few tablespoon extra 
    - 1/2 cup will go into the batter, and the remaining will be used to make a lavender icing 
2. 1 tsp culinary lavender 
    - I have been told that culinary lavender is mellower than the ones used for soaps. they are available in the spice isle in some supermarkets 
3. 1 1/3 cup flour, unsifted; plus some extra to coat the blueberries
    - I don't like to sift flours, 1 1/3 cup if scooping directly from the bag with a measuring cup, which is roughly equivalent to 1 3/4 cup sifted flour 
4. 1 1/4 cup granulated sugar 
5. pinch salt 
    - required, salt helps bring out the flavor of other ingredients 
6. 1 1/2 tsp baking powder 
7. 3/4 cup unsalted butter 
    - temperature does not matter here, because we will soften it in the microwave later 
8. 1/2 cup sour cream, room temperature 
    - can substitute with plain yogurt 
9. 3 large eggs, room temperature 
10. dash of vanilla extract 
11. 1 lemon 
    - some of the zest will go into the cake batter, and the juice will be split between the batter and the blueberries 
12. 1-2 cup blueberries 
13. powdered sugar 
    - for the icing 

## Instructions 
1. heat the milk in microwave at half power until hot, taking care not to boil it; add the lavenders to steep and cool 
2. wash and drain the blueberries, set aside
3. in a large bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt, mix well 
    - it is important to mix the dry ingredients first, because we want to limit the amount of mixing we do once the wet ingredients are added to limit gluten development for a soft and tender cake, but it is also important to get an even distribution of baking powder 
    - this recipe add wet to dry ingredient, use the larger bowl for the dry ingredients
4. cut the butter into pieces, place in a medium microwave safe bowl, and microwave on half power in 15-30 seconds intervals, stirring in between each, until the butter is very soft but not melted
    - it is okay if the butter is partially melted, just stir it and it will come back to a smooth even state. if the butter is fully melted, simply put it in the fridge for a bit to set it 
5. to the softened butter, add the sour cream and eggs, mix until combined, add 1/2 cup of the lavender milk (strain to remove the flowers), vanilla extract, some lemon zest, and juice from half a lemon, mix until combined
    - combining higher viscosity ingredient before adding the liquids makes it easier to get a smooth mixture 
    - it is okay to have bits of butter or sour cream that are not fully incoporated, they will disappear once added to the dry ingredients 
6. add half of the wet ingredients to the dry ingredient, mix until mostly combined and there are no lumps of flour; add the remaining wet ingredient and mix until just combined 
    - mixing relies on shear, so it is easier to mix evenly in higher viscosity environmennt, which is why we add half of the wet ingredients first 
7. preheat the oven to 350 F, grease a loaf pan 
8. add juice from half a lemon to the blueberries, toss to coat, and drain the excess. add a handful of flour to the blueberries, toss to coat. add the blueberries to the batter, stir to get a roughly even distribution 
9. transfer the batter to the loaf pan, bake for about 60 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean. the cake might need to be covered with aluminum foil for the last 20-15 minutes if it is browning too quickly
    - to check for doneness visually: the center should look set and the edges should be pulling away slightly from the pan 
10. let the cake cool in the pan for 10-15 minutes, then remove from the pan and place on a wire rack, let cool fully either at room temperature or in the fridge 
    - it is normal for the cake to deflate a bit while cooling, do not panic 
    - a warm cake will melt the icing and be much harder to slice, so please let it cool fully 
11. make the icing by adding 1/2 cup of powdered sugar to a small bowl and, 1 tablespoon of strained lavender milk, mix till smooth, and adjust the texture with more lavender milk or powdered sugar. pour or drizzle the icing over the cake 
    - icing always needs less liquid than you think, start with just a tablespoon of liquid 
    - if pouring the icing over the cake, do not pour over the crack in the cake, otherwise all the icing will be trapped there 
12. wait for icing to fully dry, slice the cake 
    - the cake is quite soft, but will become stiffer and easier to but cut when cold because of the high butter content. recommend refridgerating before cutting

Commit message:

update lavender blueberry cake recipe with reduced liquid

lavender_blueberry_loaf_cake/recipe.md, after:

# Lavender Blueberry Loaf Cake (WIP)
based on recipe from [Preppy Kitchen](https://preppykitchen.com/lemon-poppy-seed-pound-cake/) 

## Ingredients 
1. 1/3 cup whole milk
2. 1 1/2 tsp culinary lavender 
    - I have been told that culinary lavender is mellower than the ones used for soaps. they are available in the spice isle in some supermarkets 
3. 1 1/3 cup flour, packed 
    - I don't like to sift flours, 1 1/3 cup if scooping directly from the bag with a measuring cup, which is roughly equivalent to 1 3/4 cup sifted flour 
4. 1 1/4 cup granulated sugar 
5. pinch salt 
    - required, salt helps bring out the flavor of other ingredients 
6. 1 1/2 tsp baking powder 
7. 3/4 cup unsalted butter 
    - temperature does not matter here, because we will soften it in the microwave later 
8. 1/2 cup plain yogurt, room temperature 
    - wet ingredients need to be at room temperature, to avoid re-solidifying the softened butter 
9. 3 large eggs, room temperature 
10. dash of vanilla extract 
11. zest from one lemon 
12. 1-2 cup blueberries 
13. powdered sugar 
    - for the icing 
14. lemon juice 

## Instructions 
1. heat the milk in microwave at half power until warm, add the lavenders, and leave in the fridge to steep overnight. return to room temeprature before using in the recipe 
2. wash and drain the blueberries, add to a small pot, and cook on the stove at medium heat until the juice looks slightly reduced, cool to room temperature 
3. in a large bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt, mix well 
    - it is important to mix the dry ingredients first, because we want to limit the amount of mixing we do once the wet ingredients are added to limit gluten development for a soft and tender cake, but it is also important to get an even distribution of baking powder 
    - this recipe add wet to dry ingredient, use the larger bowl for the dry ingredients
4. cut the butter into pieces, place in a medium microwave safe bowl, and microwave on half power in 15-30 seconds intervals, stirring in between each, until the butter is very soft but not melted
    - it is okay if the butter is partially melted, just stir it and it will come back to a smooth even state. if the butter is fully melted, simply put it in the fridge for a bit to set it 
5. to the softened butter, add the yogurt and eggs, mix until combined, then add the lavender milk (strain to remove the flowers), vanilla extract, lemon zest, mix until combined
    - combining higher viscosity ingredient before adding the liquids makes it easier to get a smooth mixture 
    - it is okay to have bits of butter or yogurt that are not fully incoporated, they will disappear once added to the dry ingredients 
6. add half of the wet ingredients to the dry ingredient, mix until mostly combined and there are no lumps of flour; add the remaining wet ingredient and mix until just combined 
    - mixing relies on shear, so it is easier to mix evenly in higher viscosity environmennt, which is why we add half of the wet ingredients first 
7. add the roasted blueberries to the batter, mix slightly 
    - I tried not fully mixing the blueberries to create a marbled look, but the color from the blueberry juice fades significantly once baked 
7. preheat the oven to 325 F, grease a loaf pan  
9. transfer the batter to the loaf pan, bake for about 70 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean. the cake might need to be covered with aluminum foil for the last 20-15 minutes if it is browning too quickly
    - to check for doneness visually: the center should look set and the edges should be pulling away slightly from the pan 
10. let the cake cool in the pan for 10-15 minutes, then remove from the pan and place on a wire rack, let cool fully either at room temperature or in the fridge 
    - it is normal for the cake to deflate a bit while cooling, do not panic 
    - a warm cake will melt the icing and be much harder to slice, so please let it cool fully before icing 
11. make the icing by adding 1/2 cup of powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon of lemon juice to small bowl, mix till smooth, and adjust the texture with more lemon juice or powdered sugar. pour or drizzle the icing over the cake 
    - icing always needs less liquid than you think, start with just a tablespoon of liquid 
12. wait for icing to fully dry, slice the cake 
    - the cake is quite soft, but will become stiffer and easier to but cut when cold because of the high butter content. recommend refridgerating before cutting
